- [Instructor] Configuring datasources for use in Quarkus
is actually very easy.
It all follows a similar pattern,
and it's straightforward from there.
Now there's a few prerequisites that you have to have set up
in order to do the configuration of your database.
First and foremost,
you need to have Agroal and the JDBC extension,
both of which are required on the class path
through the POM file or through your Gradle command
to make sure that you have the needed dependencies.
Now, if you are doing reactive programming,
you're going to want to use Vert.x.
Now, whenever you set up a connection,
there's going to be details
that you are going to need to input.
So those details are something you should have
when you get started.
Now, when we're configuring all of the properties,
really the driver, what makes things click is db-kind,
and specifically it's quarkus.datasource.db-kind
is the property.
And this is where you tell it
that it's Postgres or MySQL
so that it knows how to set up the proper driver.
Now, you may also add things like username and password,
so quarkus.datasource.username,
quarkus.datasource.password.
Jdbc.url, you need to specify the URL to your database.
So along the same lines as db-kind,
you're going to use quarkus.datasource.jdbc.url
and point it to a valid URL for the JDBC operations.
And then, the max-size property, so jdbc.max-size,
and that's the max size of your connection pool
that you wish to use with your database.
Now, consuming the datasource
is actually very straightforward, and in the next video,
we're going to build on this configuration
and actually configure a database and connect to it.
But let's talk about what it actually entails consuming it.
So you can get a handle to an AgroalDataSource,
and that's just an instance variable
that you would inject into your application code.
And this is, of course, injected by CDI,
so you don't need to do anything
other than the @Inject annotation.
Now, AgroalDataSource is a subtype of java.sql.DataSource,
so usually what I do is actually inject
a java.sql.DataSource
because very seldom do I need the benefits of the Agroal,
the extension points.
Most of my code is very generic,
so I'm just going to use the java.sql.DataSource going forward.
There are times in an application
where you may want to run multiple datasources.
Now, this is less common in today's microservices world,
where we would handle these types of scenarios
across web service boundaries.
But if you do need to build a component
that has multiple datasources at play,
please note that there is a way to do that with Quarkus,
and that's through the concept of named datasources.
So if you remember when we talked about configurations,
you can only have a single bean of a single type predefined
and have it injected correctly with a caveat,
and that is these named datasources.
So this won't break injection if built properly,
and the way you do it is you do quarkus.datasource,
and then you provide it some name, so .foo,
and then you continue the configuration.
So you can have foo.db-kind as Postgres
and blah.db-kind equals MySQL for instance.
And then, when you inject the datasource,
you put a name of that datasource in quotes
with the injection.
And this allows you to run multiple datasources
within a given application.
Again, not the most common thing today,
but it is possible and I did want to talk about it.
So now that we have done the high level
of connecting to a database,
now it's time to jump into our code
and actually put some real meat behind what we just saw.